# The OLB code - a short primer
The OLB code is extensive, and reading the code of others is always difficult. Hence, we have created this short document explaining the code and how to use it properly. This file is structured in two parts. First, we have a general overview over each module which together constitute the OLB, then we have a short primer on how to write your own module to seamlessly integrate it into the OLB source code, and last we have a guide on how to use the config file to tweak most buoy settings without having to code anything yourself. 

## The OLB source code in a shellnut 
The general logic of the OLB is sentered around its LoRa library, which implements a class called ```LoRa_Transceiver``` and one default instance of said class with the name ```LORA```. Most other classes are designed around being integrated with the ```LoRa_Transceiver``` class. This class is initialized once during setup, where it transmits its deployment position, its ID, and the date of deployment. The buoy ID is constructed from the serial number of the thermometre. To use the ```LoRa_Transceiver``` module, call the ```beginRadio(LoRa_freq_send, LoRa_bw, LoRa_sf, LoRa_cr, LoRa_power)``` method with your chosen radio parameters in the setup function. Afterwards, Arduino strings and char arrays can be transmitted via the ```transmit(message)``` method, while byte arrays can be transmitted using the ```transmitB(message, msgSize)``` method, or the radio can listen for incoming messages using the ```listen(max_wait_time)``` method, which will listen for a byte array message for up to ```max_wait_time``` milliseconds. To switch the radio between receiving and sending mode, you can use the ```changeFrequency(frequency)``` method. 